welcome to slash forward in this episode
we're going to examine a movie with a
timely message
in the 1979 environmental horror film
prophecy if you prefer displaying your
insides on the outside
consider subscribing to the channel
let's get to it
we open on some hypnotic lights dancing
in the dark as they come into resolution
we recognize them to be flashlights in
the woods
that are accompanied by the sounds of
footballs and panting dogs
tracking something when the dogs
indicate their quarry is at the bottom
of a cliff they descend
despite the shrieking and sounds of
crunching bones the last guy decides to
go down to help
and ends up breaking his back among the
bloody corpses of his friends
and or colleagues the carnage fades to
maggie a concert cellist who
punishes those strings but is distracted
from her art by her pregnancy and the
uncertainty of how her husband will
react her assumption is that he won't
want to keep the baby
this is due to rob's experience as an
on-call doctor for a free clinic where
he's constantly confronted by the
unnecessary suffering imposed by the
ruling class
in this case a landlord who's unwilling
to deal with his building's rat problem
in this low moment he's approached by
vic who wants to enlist him to complete
an ecological survey of some sacred
lands
threatened by a paper company they're an
illegal stalemate with the indigenous
tribe and
if they find some environmental problems
he has an opportunity to do something
concrete to evoke tangible change for
good in the world and he can just think
of it as being a doctor of the earth
so all his skills will transfer over
soon husband and wife are taking an icy
plane ride out to the picturesque
wilderness to do some good
and hopefully fix their crumbling
marriage they meet another camping
family and mr eisley the representative
from the paper company
on their way out the path is blocked by
john hawks upholding the tradition of
casting an italian as a native american
and vacation time abruptly ends for our
young couple as attention quickly
escalates into your standard chainsaw
versus ax battle with the lumberjack
coming out on top
they put this behind them and begin
canoodling but their rustic sensuality
can't be maintained when maggie broaches
the topic of having children and rob
insists that there's just too much
awfulness in the world
then they get a little scratch at the
door and find themselves engaged in a
mini boss fight with a raccoon that
tries to show them the true meaning of
wildlife
and refuses to go down until rob snuffs
it out in the fireplace
as rob engages in his work he's
confronted by john hawks who wants to
convince him that his tribe
is a part of the environment and the
deforestation of the lumber company is
manifesting in their biology
they take them to ramona's grandfather
who regales them with forced legends and
also insists that the forced guardian
beast katahdin is real
they laugh at crazy old grandpa until a
tadpole of enormous sizes fished out of
the pond
so they go to burn up some run time
checking out the wood pulping operation
trying to get the lowdown on the
chemicals used in the process and we the
audience relax for a bit as the movie
turns into b-roll from a mr rogers
episode
mr eisley insists no harsh chemicals are
used
and even welcomes rob to check the water
table himself but
rob sees a trick laid out before him
recognizing that if the chemical is
heavier than the water it won't show up
in the samples
after confirming mercury was used in
olden times to keep algae off logs
and mercury poisoning would explain a
lot of the wacky occurrences they've
witnessed
along with the health issues suffered on
the reservation he opts for blood
testing instead
while he unravels the mystery of
katahdin maggie begins to lose her mind
about the implications this holds
regarding her unborn baby we then
transition to our happy campers
made unhappy when katahdin busts out
from the underbrush and turns their
slumber party into one of the bloodiest
pillow fights on record the police then
roll up to the reservation to arrest
whomever
they'd like in connection with the
murders but jon refuses to go quietly
pulling a reverse kool-aid man into the
woods to escape
rob and crew take a helicopter out to
the scene to do their own evidence
collection
and find the nearby trees marred by
unnaturally high scrapes and the gross
little flesh pouch
maggie takes ill and wanders off for
some fresh air and finds a nearby
poacher's net that contains several
crimes against nature which they can't
wait to get their hands on as
sweet sweet evidence by now the winds
picked up too much for helicopterin so
they take the specimens to ramona's
grandfather's encampment they work to
stabilize the still-living freak and rob
calls in
everyone journalists police sheriffs
residents whoever they can to bear
witness to what's been done here
in this intermission maggie gives rob
the big reveal that she's pregnant
and has been eating the salmon he caught
in the river as this begins to devastate
his psyche the spectators arrive and the
cries of desperation emanating from the
inside out teddy bear are enough to even
warm the icy cockles of mr eisley's dead
black heart
he confesses to the mercury usage but
claims he didn't want to do it
nevertheless the time has come to repay
the debt as katahdin arrives and
impresses us with his girth and agility
easily tearing through the crowd and
forcing them to take to the tunnels
while the screams and grunting die down
on the surface the sheriff is the only
one brave enough to check the coast
finding it unclear and he pays a heavy
price for his bravery the next morning
they emerge to the smouldering wreckage
of the camp
and drag the injured to the village due
to the remoteness and limited time mr
eisley attempts a redemption arc by
hiking solo six miles to the radio tower
he makes it there but allows himself the
luxury of becoming momentarily
intoxicated by nature's bounty
and is immediately sobered by nature's
uncaring harshness as he's pursued by
the beast
and only manages to make it three
quarters of the way under the fence
meanwhile jon found a truck and the gang
decides to drive into town
but it's slow going and they don't make
it out of the woods before nightfall
the vehicle is flipped over by katahdin
and he slaughters several of their rank
for sport while the others make for the
water the little freak baby does work on
maggie's neck and grandpa hangs back to
buy them some time
and it may be the mercury poisoning here
but he's feeling like he could just take
on the world
resulting in him getting ragdolled
katahdin then hesitates as the icy water
is like needles on his raw exposed skin
but
he loves killing so much that he forged
the river momentarily disappearing but
then emerging on the other side
they attempt to barricade the doors and
windows so he bursts through the roof
and they pepper him with buckshot and
arrows rob is eventually forced to
utilize the arrows by hand to destroy
the monster's face
and then he does an atomic drop into the
water just for style before ensuring the
job is done
the remaining survivors then fly off to
live happily ever after
leaving the locals to deal with the
ongoing monster menace
on their own just a quick reminder that
i have a website where you can support
the channel through donations
any donation gets you an uncensored 10
minute review of toby hooper's life
force
and any support is greatly appreciated
prophecy is a really good monster movie
it had some of the violence toned down
to get it a pg rating but i appreciate
how they tried to accommodate this
reduction in terror by adding suspense
and uncertainty in other areas
for instance an excessive amount of time
was spent in the tunnels listening to
the victims on the surface getting
chewed up if you enjoyed the video i'd
love for you to become a part of the
channel by subscribing
thanks for watching